I'm gonna just sort of switch gears here.
I'm gonna open up this WebGL and
GLSL book.
I'm gonna walk through some of
the concepts around coordinate systems and
around meshes and materials and
just sort of review some of those things.
It will be a bit of review if
you've already done some WebGL, but
it's gonna be nice to
just go through it again.
And then we'll actually get
into working with the code and
starting to edit things and
starting to develop it ourselves.
So if you go to the repo and
you go to the interactive book,
the WebGL and GLSL primer.
And you can follow along with me or you
can just watch the screen, it's up to you.
If you follow along, you'll see that
these little demos are interactive, and
so you can actually edit them.
So yeah, the first thing to point
out really is coordinate systems.
So coordinate systems is sorta
the basis for us working with 3D.
You're probably familiar
with 2D coordinates.
Top left is 0, 0,
bottom right is the width and
height of the grid that
we're working with.
And here we just have different
pixel values going in.
And so the coordinate here would be 0
on the x, which is the horizontal, and
2 on the y, which is the vertical,
pretty straightforward.
Also, with this little demo,
you can click this to full screen it or
you can click this reload button to
reset the settings back to default.
So that's the most basic coordinate
system you're familiar with but in WebGL,
and once we start to get into 3D,
we actually want to start thinking in
terms of relative to the origin point.
So in this example,
we've shifted the whole grid and
we've given it the ability
to go negative as well.
So now our coordinates
are going into the negatives.
So the the left or bottom here, -x, -y,
as opposed to just going to 0,
it can go below 0.
And then we also have the center point.
So if we type in 0, 0, that's gonna
be centered in the middle of the grid
that we're working with in the middle
of this coordinate system.
And this concept is really, really
crucial when we start to talk about 3D
because everything is
relative to this coordinate.
And so it could be positive in
either direction, by any amount.
So this is just going up to 1,
but these coordinates could be
going up to infinity in positive or
negative directions.
So this is how we start to think
about 3D coordinates is in this
Cartesian coordinate system
that's centered around 0, 0.
And 3D coordinates is the same thing.
The only thing is that we're
now revealing a third axis.
And so if we go here,
we can see the same 2D coordinate system,
which is centered around 0, 0.
But if we shift our perspective,
if we shift the camera and
we start to look at this coordinate system
from a different angle, we can see that
all of a sudden we're revealing a Z axis,
which is the third coordinate.
And if we don't have any perspective,
if we're just looking at it from 2D and
we're trying to change this Z component,
the third dimension here we're
not gonna see any difference.
But as soon as we look at
it in this perspective and
we change that it's gonna make a huge
difference as to where it's placed.
And so this is pretty much how
a 3D coordinate system works.
It might be pretty basic for some of you.
But you'll see once we
start to work in encode,
it can be sometimes hard to wrap around.
How do I place an object in
the top left of the screen?
Because there's no longer
a top left of the screen,
because everything is relative
to the origin and relative to
things like the camera placement and the
camera orientation, and things like that.